WELCOME TO DEEP BREADTH
Prepare to walk the streets of a modern world filled with technology while still wielding wondrous magic powers. 

Welcome to Cogitar (COH-jih-tahr), the Heart of Hiraeth (HEER-yth). This urban metropolis is a testament to humans and their growing ability, but that is how the Shadewalkers saw the world. Lightbearers knew the truth; fantastic beings began blending with this world, and only they could see the magic woven into the land. Advancements in technology, from the light switch that brings light to our houses to the intricate network in our mobile telecommunication devices, are all manifestations of powerful magic users.


When the Veil Tore Open
It has been quite some time. Many still remember the day the boundary tore and the magic hidden among us was revealed. Humans obscured in the shade were forced to deal with a world larger than themselves all around them, while the beings bathed in the light had no choice but to collaborate with the magically deficient. Realms shattered, sending hundreds of thousands of beings into this one and sealing it away. Urgency made it important to work together as the fantastical creatures merged with the known world, as did their monsters and the following destruction. Creatures terrifying might sunder the land and eliminate much of society, leaving this as the last known bastion of civilization.
Ignorance truly was bliss. We departed from the Ignolorian (ihg-NOH-lohr-ee-an) Era, the age of unknown horizons, and into what many consider the Melugium (Meh-LOO-zhee-uhm) Era, the age of restored balance. 



Where We Now Stand
From the outside of the city, it is a paradise for society. Lands have been torn apart by the monsters that roamed the land without substantial forces to drive them away. Death and destruction worldwide remain a distance away from the great metropolis. 
Corogus (coh-ROH-guhs) sits center as the downtown district where all major business takes place and is the only access to the government district of Aeorza (a-YOR-zuh) to the east across a lone bridge suspended above the massive river.
Grimhaven is the core of industrialism and factories north of the center and opposite Rheinshire (RINE-shi-er) to the south, where it remains expensive but worthy of staying. Those lucky enough to be closer to the center find their greatest concern being traffic, although nothing stops criminals from trying their hand at fortune. 
However, people living west of the city center in Orion Heights are left with less than suitable living conditions. This is particularly true the further out one finds themselves of Grimhaven and Rheinshire. Safety exists as a wall at the edge, a boundary, and a symbol for what remains. 

THE PULSE OF THE HEARTLAND



Cogitar Metropolis
Key Slogan: “Lucet [in] Tenebris, Obscurat [in] Luce” - Shine in Darkness, Dim in Light 
Common Saying: “Infinitus Terminus” - An Infinite Limit
Demonym: Cogitarian
This metropolis is comparable to the great cities on “Earth,” known as New York, Tokyo, London, and Mexico City, as a cultural center of many civilizations. A connection of elevated railways that move from the center outward to other districts and return throughout the greater metropolis. This allows four of the five major divisions of the metropolis to be interconnected. 

Corogus Province
Central Cogitar
The pinnacle of Cogitar, sometimes called the “Pulse of the Heartland,” Corogus is the region's capital and economic center. 
Lethodaj (LEH-thoh-daaj) is a ruin located beneath the Corogus Province, which was once named Cogitar before the expansions. The ruins have been built upon since the devastation that shook the land, as it was easier than attempting to repair the entirety of the old city.
This underground city is used mainly to navigate underneath the city through unique tunnels for the train system and other highways that weave through the remains.

Grimhaven Prefecture
Northern Cogitar
Once named Green Haven, the Grimhaven prefecture has fallen with increased industrial exploitation along the Quenching River that separates this prefecture from the Corogus province. Factories caused the land and water to become polluted, and aid disparity increased further in the prefecture.
The Asphodel Meadows is in cold marshes and frozen mountains north of the prefecture border. 

Rheinshire Prefecture
Southern Cogitar
Primarily a commercial zone that handles financial operations separate from Corogus, Rhineshire is dedicated to a middle-class living. Additionally, this prefecture boasts grand artistic expressions and prominent education outside of Aeorza. The economic success comes from the expressive entertainment of the beautiful Des Fluat River that separates this prefecture from the Corogus province.
The Kardian Fields are located south beyond the prefecture borders into cool valleys and tropical jungles.

Orion Heights Parish
Western Cogitar
Beyond the Carotide Mountain Range to the west of the Corogus Province is the expansive Orion Heights parish. This area is commercially separate from the central province and prefectures due to the mountains. It holds a residential significance for individuals who live away from the main cities.
Orion Heights is west of the Corogus Province, separated by the Carotide (KAAR-oh-tide) Mountain Range. The Lucean (LOO-zhn) Vista is located further west beyond the limits of the parish into a warm desert and rough terrain. 

Aeorza Parish
Eastern Cogitar
East of the mainland is the Sternus Sea which Cymbalom (sim-BAA-luhm) Island settles, connected by the Athriel Bridge. The island sits in the Aeorza parish, where prominent members of society swell away from the hassle of the cities. Private companies, special education facilities, and other government subsidies municipalities primarily operate in this parish. 

Serve the Heart, Sacrifice your Life 
Individuals who find themselves called to greater actions to maintain the integrity of civilization are drawn to the Diamond League of Transcendental Uniformed Soldiers, referred to as the Diamond LOTUS. All who wish to follow this path enter the Grim Academy for Rendering Dangerous Entities Neutral, the GARDEN, as Seedlings to graduate into the Diamond LOTUS. 
Graduating at the top of the class means that a Seedling joins the Ruby Guard, a military police meant to enforce law and order within the city dressed in red like the city's blood. The remaining graduates can join the Sapphire Guard, the forces in charge of maintaining the district borders, but, more importantly, station themselves along the city's boundaries. Graduates unable to meet the requirements or choose not to follow the prestigious guard are left to the Emerald Guard. The Emerald Guard dedicate their efforts to exploring the lands beyond the city's boundary to discover hope.



To Evolve is to Survive
Magic and technology may be synonymous in functionality. Here, aether is manipulated by those with an inherent ability to alter the raw forces and produce extraordinary results in Conduits. The archaic definition of this power is known as Spells. 
Aether (A-thr) is considered the life force of all things within this realm and the threads that bind it to others, and it is the ability to produce unique effects by shaping and converting this energy into tangible effects in our world. The process of manipulating raw Aether is referred to as Aether Crafting, archaically defined as Spellcasting as the individual creates a Conduit or the method in which the transition from raw energy into the desired outcome. This force is manifested in many ways, being a spell for those that study, being a power for those that inherit the power, or being a resource to amplify one’s natural potential. 
There is no difference between what an Aether Crafter and a Spell Caster do, but a distinction is a contextual approach. Individuals who can manipulate aether and produce magical effects are akin to Spell Casters. When a machine or device of artifice can manipulate aether to produce magical effects, used by an automated machine or controlled by an individual, it is akin to an Aether Crafter.

Industries of Aether
Magic have been defined in a way that has always been understood and studied, hence the application of schools of magic. However, the development of society and advancements in technology in various places manifested new industries. This became a blend of the artisan guilds over time with the inclusion of magic in their work.
Conduits are classified into eight categories commonly referred to as industries. Corporate researchers, ancient scholars, and general studies regarding conduits apply these classifications to all functions of aether crafting, no matter the source, application, or source of power.

Corporate Pantheons
Mercantile services have been a factor of society for centuries, as people trade goods and services. With the establishment of an advanced society and the industrialization of communities, business operations became more commercialized, favoring guilds rather than traditional shops and markets. This led to major guilds expanding their reach and functions to aim for control over a specific market. Still, the major shift came with the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations.
 With the development of Aether Crafting, taking the raw energy that was used to make magical effects and creating artificial magical conduits as an alternative, the traditional markets were being dominated by a series of aether crafters who used this fake spell casting to make what many worked tirelessly to do. As such, specific wizards changed their trajectory from being court wizards to creating their own companies and, over time, evolved into corporations. The Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations are the companies specifically founded by a wizard, whether or not the current company still operates with the wizard in charge or if it is the original company that was founded.

Communication
Divination
The industry originally developed to establish long-form convenient communication via radio, phones, and global positioning systems. The industry's evolution has established conduits that reveal hidden objects or information, whether physical or metaphysical. 
The Aether Communication Tower (ACT) is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Communication, discovering a way to manifest a demiplane of information. 

Energy
Evocation
The industry was originally developed to provide long-standing renewable energy by extrapolating raw aether. This process generates the ability to shape and mold the basic elements of life for increased sustained power. 
Prometheus Power is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Energy, creating the Aether Cell (and Aether Batteries) used as portable energy sources to maintain developing technologies. 

Entertainment
Illusion
The industry was originally designed to pass tradition through various forms of storytelling and developed further as a method to deceive the senses or minds of others. The nature of the creative aspects distracts the mind from what is real, and the industry's evolution allowed these false creations to become tangible and affect reality. 
The Ambrosia Garden Entertainment Network (AGEN) is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Entertainment, mastering a unique control over minor Faerie forces.

Healthcare
Necromancy
The industry was originally established to sustain the life force of organic creatures. Using the manipulation of life essence to reduce or promote health and disease. The industry's evolution brought about the ability to prevent death and even provide life to the fallen.
The Matrona Medical Group is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Healthcare, establishing control over unique rejuvenation forces in collaboration with Divine entities.


Manufacturing
Transmutation
The industry was originally developed to aid in the mass production of resources generated from raw materials. The ability to transform one form of raw material, including organic material, into a large-scale production. These transformations include the ability to make objects move by sheer will, enhance the ability of an organic creature, or simply change the property of the environment.
Heartbeat Construction is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Manufacturing, handling much of the core infrastructure of the metropolis, including the boundary walls.

Marketing
Enchantment
The most recently established industry is designed to focus on the ability to influence the thoughts and decisions that impact an individual’s behavior. The evolution of this industry pushed the potential of forcing individuals to behave in a specific manner, such as finding a particular creature more familiar, generating hostility, and even causing one to become a puppet to a marketing choice.
Syrena Holdings is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Marketing, creating the Syreno (SEE-ruh-noh) Resort and Spa that provides luxurious retreats across the region and directly supports the Emerald Guard to establish remote destinations. 

Security
Abjuration
The industry was formed to protect individuals and assets through dedicated defenses and aggressive uses. This industry evolved into establishing powerful barriers, neutralizing potential effects, debilitating trespassers, and evacuating foreign entities. 
Hypnic Operations is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Security, rivaling the Diamond LOTUS. 

Transportation
Conjuration
The industry was developed to aid in transporting objects and creatures from one location to another. This industry evolved to the potential of pulling objects and creatures from unknown realms, seemingly manifesting substance from nothing.
Jump is one of the Figure-Eight Fortune Corporations specializing in Transportation, creating the “Jump” pads allowing for teleportation across the massive metropolis.

Lesser Corporate Pantheons
The world is full of businesses, from individuals selling from carts on the streets, family businesses, and a group or guild selling on large scales. Still, only a select number of organizations chose to file articles of incorporation and gain the support of local government to enhance their operations. 
There are dozens of other business organizations; however, not all have become incorporated, and even those that have may not be filled with enough notoriety to be nationally recognized even if they are locally popular. Here are some of the most prominent corporations in Cogitar considered part of the lesser corporate pantheons.
Aurum Reserves. Cogitar established a widespread banking system integrated with the treasury. Permits the use of a unique currency management system which includes the direct function of Charge Cards. – “The New Gold Standard” was founded by Lazlo and Gabrantha.
Hortisun. A collection of green-focused enthusiasts that strive to create healthy vegetation despite the attempt of society to continue evolving and tearing through limited land resources. – “A Greener Tomorrow, Today” was founded by various druid circles.
Inoscular. A fashion enterprise that focuses on reduced waste and upcycling, using natural materials to make clothing that can be recycled for the newest fashion. – “Naturally Stylish” was founded by the druid Daedalus.
Hemion Herald. A premier delivery service is used for most post requests choosing to avoid government-provided programs. They specialize in delivering to locations where Jump pads are unavailable and supplement with custom newsprints. – “Unstoppable. Unbeatable” was founded by delivery person Hemion.
The Sentinel. A prolific news network through broadcasting and articles available on demand. Not a fan favorite and influenced by the government, they boast 24 Hours news cycle. – “Vigilant News, Always.

Player’s Guide


The Horizon Boundary was a magical phenomenon where people could see and manipulate their magic (Lightbearers) and others who could not (Shadewalkers). Shadewalkers lived unaware of the magic around them and even in themselves. Elves would walk around, and everyone would see them as another human, just as they saw themselves. Lightbearers saw the truth, observing as a dragon would soar through the sky above the Ferris wheel or seeing the sea elf that could sit at the bottom of a pool unbothered for an extraordinarily long time.
Nearly a century ago, the Horizon Boundary cracked, and the truth became evident for everyone to witness. Chaos ran through the streets as people with magical lineage unleashed their truth, and the very fabric of society began to crumble. However, their differences and concerns were put aside as the continued fracturing of the boundary caused other realms, dimensions, and universes to collapse onto this one. Not only had people revealed their magical lineage, but creatures from foreign lands were thrust upon this one forcing magic where even Shadewalkers suddenly bore powers.
The actual problem was not the people that came but the monsters that shared their homeland. Monsters across the multiverse found their way to this world of Hiraeth, and the apocalypse was all but certain. Armies faced the forces of darkness encroaching on the land and were quickly overwhelmed as civilization dwindled. By chance, a small party found a way to enter the Horizon Boundary and barricade the fracture. Their efforts allowed the fragments of society to gather themselves and settle in the metropolis of Cogitar.
This is where your story takes place.
The city has provided comfort for those living near the center, away from the fear of what comes by land, and the eastern sea remains ever calm so long as one does not sail beyond the sight of land. Nevertheless, portions of the city face a threat from what evil lingers along the outlands beyond the fortified walls and still deal with the strife of an overpopulated region eating away at itself. 



Character Information
Character Level: Starting Level 5
Adventure Level: Tier 2 (5 – 10) and Tier 3 (11 – 14) of play.
Ability Scores: Point Buy or Standard Array
Starting Equipment: Normal Starting Equipment, additional 250gp, and One Uncommon Magic Item (Request)
Starting Bonus: One Free Feat
Playable Races: Official Races Allowed (Homebrew on Request)
Playable Classes: Official Classes Allowed (Homebrew not allowed)
Playable Subclasses: Official Subclasses Allowed (Homebrew on Request)

Natural 20s
Critical Hit. If you roll a natural 20 on the dice on an attack roll, the damage is Maximum + Roll. This means you assume the maximum damage you can deal with the attack, then roll the dice and add those values together. 
EX. A shortsword attack (DEX 14 [+2]) makes a critical hit. The maximum damage can be dealt is 8 (1d6 + 2). You roll the d6 and get a 4. The total damage for the critical hit is 12 (8 + 4). If the attack included a sneak attack [4d6]. Then the damage would include 24 (4d6) and a dice roll. Assuming the sneak attack rolled 12. Then the total damage of the critical hit with the sneak attack is 48 (8 + 4 + 24 + 12). This applies to all damage dice rolled for the attack (such as a Paladin’s Smite, Ranger’s Hunter’s Mark, or a Warlock’s Hex). 
Ability Check. If you roll a natural 20 on the dice for an ability check, it may not guarantee success, but magic is unpredictable, and you will benefit from a spell relevant to the check. 
EX. You roll a natural 20 on the dice for an Intelligence (Investigation) check to look for traps. You find a specific trap, and you may gain the benefits of the find traps spell. 

Healing Potions
When using a healing potion or similar items that provide benefits with a roll, there are two ways to do it.
Action. You can use the potion, gaining the full benefits of the healing (Healing potion normally provides 2d4 + 2 healing. Rather than rolling, you automatically gain 10 points of healing).
Bonus Action. You can quickly use the potion, rolling the dice to determine healing as normal. 
Using a potion on another character requires one action and will always require a roll.


